start

AUGUSTO MIJARES CENTER
SUSTAINABLE HUMAN DEVELOPMENT

WELCOME
Welcome to this space of the Augusto Mijares Center, a non-profit Civil Association focused on the theme of Social Responsibility, with emphasis on the Venezuelan reality. On this page you will find information alluding to the eponym, Augusto Mijares, his professional career, his contributions in the specific field of education and his works. You can also learn about the Center: mission, values, lines of work, projects in execution and activities carried out. In addition, this website has direct links to communicate via messaging with the members of the Center, search for information on specific topics, access a list of blogs on social responsibility and locate other institutions interested in the topic of social responsibility. With this website, we hope to join the group of people who, both in Venezuela and in other parts of the world, are contributing their ideas for sustainable human development.

PURPOSE
The Augusto Mijares Center is made up of a group of professionals who advise on the execution of projects framed in the theme of Social Responsibility - Sustainable Human Development. Currently, it does not have a website for the dissemination of its work and production. Hence, he has chosen to collaborate with this institution, developing this web space that will work as a means of interaction with the general public. Specifically, the purpose is to respond to this lack that affects the establishment of more effective communication, in response to the impact that ICTs currently have in all areas of human relations. In addition, it is expected that this medium will constitute a link to establish alliances and generate, in a collaborative way, new proposals for the elaboration of future projects in diverse fields, such as the environment, tourism, business management, university education, among others.

OBJECTIVES
1. Function as an information point on the topic of Social Responsibility.
2. Establish online partnerships to carry out activities for sustainable human development.
3. Publicize the work carried out, in the field of Social Responsibility - Sustainable Development, by the members of the Augusto Mijares Center and others interested in the subject.
4. Function as an information center for reflection on the theme of Social Responsibility.
Note on the objectives point was used ula list this was not done by hand.

video link
https://youtu.be/Kcl-T98Wtvo
-------------------------------------------------- --------------------------

semblance

Augusto Mijares was born in Villa de Cura (Anzoátegui state) on November 12, 1987, but from a young age he lived in the city of Caracas. He graduated as a Lawyer from the Central University of Venezuela (UCV) in 1921 and also a Professor in Geography and History in 1938.
Of the two careers in which he graduated, Mijares showed a predilection for teaching, starting as a classroom teacher at the age of seventeen. In this work he not only stood out for his pedagogical practice, but also for his contributions in the reforms of the teaching programs, creation of schools and the meritorious positions he held in the education system, his participation as Minister of Education in 1948.
This distinguished educator was also a prominent writer. In 1964 he wrote his work El Libertador, considered one of the best biographies about Simón Bolívar.
Augusto Mijares, today, continues to inspire many professionals, especially teachers, who exercise the values ??of "justice, good, beauty and truth", aim for a learning that contributes to enhance the abilities of the student and the teacher , in full harmony with the needs and socio-cultural characteristics of the society where the educational process takes place.


PEDAGOIC CONTRIBUTIONS OF AUGUSTO MIJARES

Training in values ??to build the future of the country.

To form values ??it is necessary to reach the “affective” dimension of the human being.

Educate in virtues and integrate affectivity and reason.

Moral education is a sentimental education, acting virtuously is acting from an inclination formed by the cultivation of civic virtues such as constancy and probity.

Integrate the Venezuelan affirmative into education.

Plays
Augusto Mijares was considered one of the most prominent essayists of the 21st century. This has been his work:

The homeland of Venezuelans (1750)

The pessimistic interpretation of Spanish-American sociology (1938)

Men and ideas of America (1940)

Education (1943)

The light and the mirror (1955)

The ideology of emancipatory revolution (1961)

The affirmative Venezuelan (1963)

The Liberator (1964)

The political evolution of Venezuela (1967)

Longitude and latitude (1971)

Copyright © 2020 All rights reserved | This template is made with by DiazApps

Note; in PEDAGÓIC CONTRIBUTIONS OF AUGUSTO MIJARES and OBRAS list labels were used for these points

-------------------------------------------------- -----------------

augusto mijares center

MISSION
The AUGUSTO MIJARES CENTER is a non-profit civil association that contributes to human development, through the generation and dissemination of information, extracurricular education, promoting quality education, technical assistance to improve the performance of organizations and the promotion of initiatives of social responsibility and volunteering, with the purpose of achieving the formation of social capital and the sustainable development of the community.

VIEW
The AUGUSTO MIJARES CENTER aspires to be recognized, at the national level, as an organization of excellence, committed to the sustainable development of the community.


VALUES
Within our strategic thinking, Values ??are the true power: they help us clarify our Mission as an organization and as people; They purify and inspire our Vision and drive us in every organizational performance activity.
Inspired by the thought of Professor Augusto Mijares, we assume as our ideals of Justice, Good, Beauty and Truth; and the values ??of SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY, SOLIDARITY, CONSTANCE, RESPONSIBILITY, FREEDOM, AND FRATERNITY.

SOCIAL RESPONSABILITY
We stimulate a mature, conscious and sensitive attitude to the problems of our society, while adopting habits, formulating strategies and developing processes that help us minimize the negative impacts that we can generate on the environment and society.

FRATERNITY
We promote union, tolerance and respect for the differences between the members that make up a society, living together and acting together in pursuit of the common good, and sharing their life experiences.

FREEDOM
We assume it as the ability to responsibly choose the direction of our lives. It implies knowing and differentiating between good and evil and proceeding according to our conscience, beliefs and aspirations.

RESPONSIBILITY
We participate jointly with companies, institutions, organizations and individuals to promote initiatives for human development and sustainable community development.

SOLIDARITY
We act selflessly and with full joy in favor of other people, taking into account the usefulness and need of the contribution for these people.

CONSTANCY
We have perseverance and make constant effort to achieve our goals and objectives. We begin again and again to correct mistakes and overcome obstacles. It is assumed what Simon Bolivar said in the Cartagena Manifesto: "(...) courage, skill and constancy correct bad fortune" - Quoted by Augusto Mijares in the work El Libertador.

-------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------

Projects


UNIVERSITY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT WHAT AND WHAT?

By the AuguSto Mijares Center: Mgtr. Tamara Malaver
The Agusto Mijares Center considers it pertinent to address the issue of Social Responsibility - Sustainable Human Development in the university education system, based on the contributions that the United Nations Organization (UN) has made on this matter. In this regard, he believes it is necessary to focus his action taking into account the UN Principles Responsible Management of University Education in which the following is stated:
Purpose: To develop in students the capacities for sustainability, add value to companies and society in general and work for an inclusive and sustainable economy.
Values: Incorporate the values ??of social responsibility and sustainable development into academic activities and programs.
Methods: Create Educational Projects, materials, processes and environments that allow effective learning experiences for responsible leadership

Research: Conduct research to understand the impact of companies and organizations on the creation of social and environmental sustainability and economic value.
Association: Interact with social actors to take on the challenges of the community and its organizations in matters of social and environmental responsibility.
Dialogue: Promote the dialogue and debate of all interested parties on critical issues related to sustainability and social responsibility. Given these principles, one possibility of involving social responsibility in the university is through the Community Service. The purpose is for this activity to be a starting point for the management and development of projects that will improve the quality of life of the citizen within the university and in the society where he lives. Currently, the Augusto Mijares Center has in a Social Responsibility Proposal - Sustainable Human Development at the Universidad de Oriente is underway. The execution of this project would be a key opportunity to put into practice the motto “From the town we come / to the town we go” that serves as a north to this House of Higher Studies.

Read more

-------------------------------------------------- --------------

events

MASTER'S IN MANAGEMENT OF SUSTAINABLE TOURISM
The Postrate Master's Program in Sustainable Tourism Management is an opportunity for training and professional updating for tourism development in the 21st Century. The Program is made up of the following curricular units: Tourism Legislation, Natural and Cultural Heritage, Sustainable Tourism Marketing, Promotion of Sustainable Tourism, Formulation and Evaluation of Sustainable Tourism Projects, Marketing and Sale of Sustainable Tourism Products, Environmental Legislation, Environmental Education, Environmental Economics, Sustainable Tourism Development Planning, Sustainable Tourism and community participation. The lines of research and knowledge generation of this program are: Tourism and Environment; Sustainable Tourism Development Planning; Cultural heritage; Quality and Certification of Tourism Sustainability; Human Resources Management in Tourism Companies. Academic Requirements: Undergraduate University Degree Location: Margarita Island

Interested parties should send their data to:

Dr. Rafael Torrealba (ULAC) No. Telephone. 0414-4650138. Email: raftor535@hotmail.com
Tamara Malaver (Centro Augusto Mijares) No. Télef. 0426-5864477.
Email: tamaramalaver@gmail.com; centroaugustomijares@gmail.com

Postgraduate Program approved by the National Council of Universities (CNU): Resolution 063, Published in Official Gazette No.38.651 dated 23 03 2007

Pre-registrations are received until 04/15/2016

Greetings, thanks for spreading this academic offer and thus contributing to the human development of our people.

-------------------------------------------------- --------------
videos

A SPACE TO DEBATE FROM THE VIDEO

links

https://youtu.be/44E6zSpaDwE

Dr. François Vallaeys
Social Responsibility by François Vallaeys | 21st Century University URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=44E6zSpaDwE

https://youtu.be/do9dIcEIiwU
Dr. François Vallaeys
Overview of the RSO in Latin America (SIRSO 2014) III SYMPOSIUM OF THE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY OF THE ORGANIZATIONS URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=do9dIcEIiwU

https://youtu.be/h4juTFzNYcs
UNIVERSITY OF THE PACIFIC
CONFERENCE: Social Responsibility as a university model for Latin America URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h4juTFzNYcs

https://youtu.be/W7y83cZ_s7g
Dr. Francois Vallaeys
Conference: EDUCATIONAL QUALITY AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY -International Education Quality Conference URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=W7y83cZ_s7g

-------------------------------------------------- -------------------------

equipment

WE ARE AN INTERDISCIPLINARY TEAM

ALEX RODRÍGUEZ D.
Degree in Administration, Master in Tourism, Tourism Marketing Mention; Experience as a university teacher and promoter of entrepreneurs.
Telephone: 0416-5971407
E-mail: arcaro0460@hotmail.com

GISELA QUINTERO B.
Psychologist has extensive experience in organizational development, management and development of human talent in public institutions and private companies.
Telephone: 0416-8969824
E-mail: gigiqb@gmail.com

JUDITH P. ALVARADO J.
Teacher, Actress, Director, Author of Theater Texts, Acting Teacher, Theater Artist.
Telephone: 0416-1949369
E-mail: juditha.alvarado@gmail.com



MARÍA AUGUSTA BERROTERÁN
Degree in Hospitality, Master in Environmental Management, experience in hospitality, tourism and environmental education.
Telephone: 0416-4957513
E-mail: mariaberroteranmaluenga@gmail.com


TAMARA MALAVER
Degree in Industrial Relations, Master in Business Management, Graduated from the 5th UNDP Program for Training in Corporate Social Responsibility; experience in organizational development, human management, teaching and promotion of community projects.
Telephone: 0426-5864477
E-mail: tamaramalaver@gmail.com


TERESITA GONZÁLEZ
Degree in Sociology, Master in Education, extensive experience in middle and university education, promoter of the pedagogical strategy: Philosophy for Children
Telephone: 0412-0960917
E-mail: teresitadelacruz@gmail.com

